Our natural moon satellite

In 1609, after the invention of the telescope by Galileo Galilei, mankind was able to examine its space satellite for the first time in detail.
Since then, the Moon is the most studied cosmic body, as well as the first one that man has been able to visit.

The first thing you have to figure out is what is our satellite? The answer is unexpected: although the moon is considered a satellite,
technically, it is the same high-grade planet as the Earth. It has a large size - 3476 kilometers across
at the equator - and the mass is 7,347 × 1022 kilograms; The moon is only slightly inferior to Mercury, the smallest planet of the Solar System.
All this makes it a full-fledged participant in the gravitational system Luna-Earth.

There is another such tandem in the Solar System, Pluto and Charon. Although the entire mass of our satellite is a little more
one hundredth of the mass of the Earth, the Moon does not circle around the Earth itself - they have a common center of mass. And the proximity to us satellite
causes another interesting effect, tidal grip. Because of him, the Moon is always turned to Earth by the same side.

Moreover, from the inside, the Moon is arranged as a full-fledged planet - it has a crust, a mantle and even a core, and in the distant past on
volcanoes existed there. However, the ancient landscapes have nothing left - for four and a half billion
over the years of the Moon’s history, millions of tons of meteorites and asteroids fell on it, and they cracked it, leaving craters.
Some of the blows were so strong that they broke through her bark right up to the mantle. Pits from such collisions
formed the lunar seas, dark spots on the moon, which are easily distinguishable from the Earth. Moreover, they are present exclusively
on the visible side. Why? We will tell about it further.

Among cosmic bodies, the Moon affects the Earth most strongly - except, perhaps, the Sun. Lunar tides that regularly
raise the level of water in the world's oceans - the most obvious, but not the strongest impact of the satellite. So, gradually
moving away from Earth, the Moon slows down the rotation of the planet - a sunny day has grown from the initial 5 to the modern 24 hours.
And the satellite serves as a natural barrier against hundreds of meteorites and asteroids, intercepting them on the approach to the Earth.

And no doubt, the Moon is a tasty object for astronomers: both amateurs and professionals. Although the distance to the moon
measured with an accuracy of up to a meter using laser technology, and soil samples from it were repeatedly brought to Earth, there
there is still room for discovery. For example, scientists hunt for lunar anomalies - mysterious flashes and lights
on the surface of the moon, not all of which have an explanation. It turns out that our satellite hides much more than it can be seen.
on the surface - let's understand the secrets of the moon together!

The study of the Moon today is more than 2,200 years old. The motion of the satellite in the sky of the Earth, the phases and the distance from it to the Earth
were described in detail by the ancient Greeks - and the inner structure of the moon and its history are explored to this day by space
devices. Nevertheless, the centuries of the work of philosophers and then physicists and mathematicians gave very accurate data on how it looks
and our moon is moving, and why is she like that. All information about the satellite can be divided into several categories
mutually flowing from each other.

How does the moon move around the earth? If our planet were stationary, the satellite would rotate in an almost perfect circle, time
from time slightly approaching and moving away from the planet. But after all, the Earth itself moves around the Sun - the Moon has to
constantly "catch up" with the planet. And our Earth is not the only body with which our satellite interacts. The sun,
which is 390 times farther from the Earth from the Moon, is 333 thousand times more massive than the Earth. And even with the inverse square law,
according to which the intensity of any energy source drops sharply at a distance, the Sun attracts the Moon 2.2 times stronger than the Earth!

Therefore, the final trajectory of our satellite resembles a spiral, and even difficult. The axis of the lunar orbit oscillates,
The Moon itself periodically approaches and moves away, and on a global scale it flies away from the Earth altogether. These same vibrations
lead to the fact that the visible side of the moon is not the same hemisphere of the satellite, but its different parts, which
alternately turning to Earth due to the "swinging" of the satellite in orbit. These movements of the moon in longitude and latitude
are called librations, and allow you to look behind the back of our satellite long before the first space flight
devices. From east to west, the moon rotates by 7.5 degrees, and from north to south - by 6.5. Therefore, from the Earth you can easily
see both poles of the moon.

The specific orbital characteristics of the moon are useful not only to astronomers and astronauts - for example, photographers especially
Super Moon is prized: the phase of the Moon in which it reaches its maximum size. This is the full moon during which the moon
is in perigee. We present the main parameters of our satellite:
The orbit of the moon is elliptical, its eccentricity, deviation about

Source: http://spacegid.com/luna.html#ixzz5XEVOVbkn