PHYSICAL SCHOOL AT THE OFFICE: HOW TO PRESERVE THE ACTIVITY EVEN WHEN SITTING WORK

About the dangers of sedentary work has long been known. Long stay in the office sometimes not the best way affects the well-being
 and physical form. Therefore, in order not to sit out your health, it is recommended not only to engage in fitness in the evenings and
 do morning exercises. Ideally, you need to exercise physical activity also during the working day. We will tell you how it is
 do right and, most importantly, imperceptibly. You will only have to choose the exercises you like and not be lazy to do them,
 especially since it is very easy!

You will be surprised to find out how easy and simple it really is to give your body a good shake, load individual muscle groups
and stretch the parts of the body that have become numb from a long sitting, without leaving the office, and sometimes not even looking up from work. Office
fitness can be done in a private office or in open space, if your workplace is a cubic -
cell with partitions. Secret exercises will be completely invisible to your colleagues, even if you sit in the most open
parts of the office. And one more thing: such exercises are unlikely to sweat out or sweat away your clothes.

ALMOST FITNESS FOR ALL MUSCLE GROUPS
Right in the office, hiding from prying eyes or in agreement with colleagues, who are also not averse to warm up and keep
good spirits and body, you can perform simple and effective exercises. Of course, it is necessary to take into account the shape of clothes, style of shirt
and pants, the convenience of shoes - do not do somersaults and do not sit on the splits, risking to stretch or tear a suit or rub
wrist cuffs. But the following exercises can be performed in almost any clothing.

Squats. One of the best and most accessible exercises. The main thing here is to perform them technically correctly: do not take off the heels
from the floor, buttocks start back and crouch deep - as if you are going to sit on the chair behind you. Hands at
This can be kept behind the head or pulled forward. For a start, enough and 10 repetitions, then their number can be increased
and take multiple approaches.

"Chinese chair". A very effective static exercise that can be performed in any empty office or hallway.
Stretch your back straight against the wall, stretch your legs far forward, then gradually bend at the knees so that they form
the ideal right angle, and the hips were strictly parallel to the floor. In this case, you will take the position as if sitting on a chair. Back
keep straight, you can stretch your arms along your body, lay on your head or cross over your chest. Hold in that position from
10 to 30 seconds.

Push up from the wall. Of course, an unequal replacement for the classic push-up from the floor, but for office fitness is quite suitable.
At the same time, the back and legs should be a straight line, without any bending, elbows should be
remain "soft", and the effort, that is, the push-up itself, do, as it should, as you exhale.

Rises shoulders. Walk to the vending machine and buy a couple of bottles of water. Take a bottle in your hand, stand up
straight, arms down along the body. Raise your shoulders up as if you want to reach their ears, then slowly
put it down. Repeat 10-15 times. If time permits, make 2-3 approaches.

Riding on the chair. Yes, yes, this is also an exercise, and not just fun fun! If you work on a rotating chair,
use it to strengthen the muscles of the arms, shoulders, back, chest, abs. Well, also to have fun and get a little fun.
Roll back from the table at a distance so that you can grasp the edge of the table with your hands. Pull yourself together with the chair to
table, straining your arms, then push off with force and roll back. Repeat several times. Of course you shouldn't do that
communicating with colleagues and, especially, with clients, but if you stayed in proud loneliness for a while, it will be quite appropriate.

SECRET EXERCISES
Of course, the opportunity to go somewhere and retire somewhere is not always the case. For example, if you work in open space and when
this is an opportunity to find a conference room empty - something from the realm of fantasy. No problem! We picked up 14 simple exercises,
You can perform right at your desk. Therefore, no one will guess that you are busy with something else besides working
routine. And these exercises will be useful if you have to wait for someone or something. Instead of nerves and experiences you
You will be glad that there is some free time that you can use to your advantage.

FOR MUSCLE HANDS
You can train your hands even when you are busy with something important - talking on the phone, working with documents,
looking through the news feed. You can forcefully press on the table with your palms or pretend that you want to lift it or
to turn. In this way, you can train both hands simultaneously or separately right and left.

FOR HANDS AND BACKS
You can work out your back muscles in office conditions by sitting on a chair if you hold the edges of his seat with your
hands and pull as if you are trying to lift yourself. If you connect the slopes back and forth, you add a few points to
the effectiveness of such a workout. Any stretching of hands forward, especially if one takes the wrist of the other, will
also have a positive effect on the tone of the back muscles.

Source: https://albione.ru/blog/health/fizkultura-v-ofise/