Features of the female diet

Surely you happened to notice one fairly common phenomenon: it is worth a man and a woman to start living together, as
the fair sex immediately begins to recover. And the point here is not at all in the “boring home” lifestyle.
Just the diet often becomes common to them, although the body needs of a man and a woman are different. AT
due to less muscle mass, a woman’s metabolism is slower, which means that her caloric need is about
15% less [1]. It requires less energy, less protein, fat and carbohydrates [2]. However, if you pay attention to
vitamins, the situation is very different: for example, a woman needs more iron, vitamin C, which is associated with natural processes,
flowing in her body. Also, the female body is more sensitive to irregular meals [3]. Disadvantage
nutrients and vitamins can lead to sad consequences - reduced activity and physical development
organism, immunity, deterioration of the skin, hair, nails and teeth, inhibition of reproductive function, development
depressive states ... Of course, everything happens gradually, it is quite difficult to immediately notice the changes. Women who
pay little attention to the diet or periodically resort to strict or simply unbalanced diets,
probably noticed "alarm bells". Quite common examples are pimples, which can be one of
signals of intestinal malfunction, increased hair volume on the comb, brittle nails ... It would seem that these are trifles.
But do they combine with concepts of beauty? First of all, it is worth remembering that our appearance is largely dependent on
functioning of internal mechanisms. Dealing with appearances is like applying cosmetics - for the time being
hides flaws. But the true transformation begins only from within. Therefore, when preparing a program for the correct
nutrition, including for weight loss, you must follow certain rules.

The principles of a healthy menu

Organization of proper nutrition is an exciting and useful activity that can become a real hobby. But at the same
time is a kind of science, because it has its own immutable rules: Eat less, but more often. The best option in
many cases is six meals. Only portions should be small - no more than 250 grams. That's how we
protect the stomach from stretching, at the same time overcoming the feeling of hunger. Water is what matters. Be sure to drink
daily about 1.5 liters of pure non-carbonated water. Do not overeat before bedtime. It is worth moving the dinner time so that it
was at a "distance" of about 3 hours before bedtime. Of course, give preference to light products. Nutritionists give
separate recommendations for "night" products: for example, white chicken meat, milk, cereal, almonds, celery, apples,
mushrooms [4]. This is important. A good breakfast is not a crime at all. Recent studies have firmly established regular
high-calorie breakfasts have a reputation for losing weight [5]. Fruits and vegetables are our friends. They are recommended to use
in the amount of not less than 400 g daily (excluding starchy roots, for example, potatoes) [6]. Sugar and salt are our enemies.
The standard intake of free sugars is about 50 grams per day (about 12 teaspoons) [7]. But be careful -
sugars contain sugary drinks, various foods, as well as honey and even fruit juices. For normal salt intake
It is considered only 5 g (1 tsp).
 
Calories count love.
 
There are many formulas for calculating the individual daily calorie needs depending on weight, height,
age and physical activity. On average, women are characterized by a rate of 1800-2000 calories per day. Three whales healthy
diet. Amino acids (proteins of animal origin - milk, meat, eggs), omega-3 unsaturated fatty acids (marine
fish, flaxseed oil, spinach), long carbohydrates (rice, buckwheat, legumes, oatmeal). We calculate BZHU - balance of proteins,
fats and carbohydrates. Proteins should be from 12%, fats - 30–33%, carbohydrates 55–59% of daily calories [8]. Here is
just a few rules of healthy and balanced nutrition for women - for starters, you can begin to apply the most simple,
and then gradually connect the rest. The first results are not long in coming. If you eat right, you can even
lose weight So, the decision to switch to a healthy diet is made. But do not immediately drive yourself into a rigid framework. Is not
Another diet, and a new way of life, in which there is a place for the pleasure of eating. You can gradually reduce calorie
products, abandoning fast food, while introducing in the diet of fruits and vegetables. Suffering is inappropriate here, only a positive attitude!
To learn recipes for healthy eating, you can join the appropriate community in social networks.
By the way, here you can find new friends by interests, which will only strengthen the motivation.

The transition to a healthy and healthy diet allows the body to obtain the necessary resources for normal life - and nothing extra.
Gradually normalized work of the gastric tract and other organs. And this means that the time has come for external transformation.
The new regime of proper nutrition, in combination with a feasible exercise provides optimal energy consumption and
leads to weight loss. Of course, one should not expect the same results as with a two-week “hungry” diet.
Everything is slower, but the effect of this long-playing. Curious Not so long ago, scientists have finished large-scale
research, proving that even small changes in the diet, for example, reducing the consumption of red meat and sweets,
able to extend life [9]. But let's turn to a specific menu - what can and cannot be consumed with proper nutrition?

Source: https://www.kp.ru/guide/pravil-noe-pitanie-dlja-zhenshchin.html