SOLAR SYSTEM

    The Solar System consists of the Sun, nine major planets with their satellites, more than 100,000 minor planets (asteroids),
over a thousand comets, as well as countless small, so-called meteor, tel.

    The central position in the solar system is the sun. Its mass is approximately 750 times the mass of all
other bodies included in the system. The gravitational attraction of the sun is the main force determining the movement of all
rotating bodies of the solar system. The average distance from the Sun to the farthest planet from it is Pluto
39.5 AU (6 billion km). Some comets are removed from the Sun at 1015 AU. and are exposed to the attraction of others
stars All large planets revolve around the Sun in one direction (in the direction of the axial rotation of the Sun itself)
in almost circular orbits, slightly inclined to each other (and to the solar equator). The distances of the planets from the sun form
regular sequence - the intervals between neighboring orbits increase with distance from the Sun, which indicates
the fact that the Solar System is not an accidental collection of cosmic bodies, but arose as a result of a single process.

    Due to the almost circular shape of the planetary orbits and the large gaps between them, the possibility of close
approximations between the planets, in which they could significantly change their movement as a result of mutual attraction.
This ensures the long existence of the planetary system. Planets also rotate on their own axis, and for all
planets, except Venus and Uranus, rotation occurs in the forward direction, i.e. in the same direction as their appeal
around the sun. The extremely slow rotation of Venus occurs in the opposite direction, and Uranus rotates as it were lying on
side.

    The overwhelming majority of the orbits of the now known minor planets lie in the interval between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter.
All small planets orbit the Sun in the same direction as the large planets, but their orbits, as a rule,
elongated and inclined to the ecliptic plane.

    Comets move mainly in parabolic orbits. Some comets have elongated orbits.
relatively small size - tens and hundreds of au These comets, called periodic, are dominated by direct
movements, i.e. movement in the direction of the planets.

    Planets are divided into two groups, differing in mass, chemical composition, rotational speed and number of satellites.
The four planets that are closest to the Sun are terrestrial planets are small and consist of dense stony matter and metals.
The giant planets - Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune - are much more massive, are composed mainly of light substances and therefore,
despite the enormous pressure in their depths, they have low density. Chemical composition of Pluto is close to the second group,
and in size - to the first.

    The depths of the planets and some large satellites (for example, the Moon) are in a hot state. Earths have planets
groups and satellites due to the low thermal conductivity of the outer layers of the internal heat very slowly seeps out
and does not have a noticeable effect on the surface temperature. For giant planets, convection in their depths leads to
a noticeable flow of heat from the subsoil, surpassing the flow they receive from the sun.

    Venus, Earth and Mars possess atmospheres consisting of gases released from their depths. At the giant planets of the atmosphere
they are a direct extension of their bowels: these planets do not have a solid or liquid surface. At
immersion inside atmospheric gases gradually become condensed.

    In terms of their chemical composition, comet nuclei are related to giant planets: they consist of water ice and ice
various gases mixed with stony substances.

    Almost all small planets in their composition belong to the stony planets of the terrestrial group. Just recently, open
Chiron, moving mainly between the orbits of Saturn and Uranus, is like the icy nuclei of comets and small satellites of distant
from the sun planets. Fragments of small planets, which are formed when they collide with each other, sometimes fall to Earth in the form
meteorites. For small planets, the subsoil warmed up much less than that of the terrestrial planets, therefore their substance
often only undergone minor changes since their inception. Measurement of the age of meteorites (in terms of
radioactive elements and their decay products) showed that they, and hence the entire solar system, exist
about 5 billion years. This age of the solar system corresponds to the measurements of the ages of the most ancient terrestrial and lunar
samples.

    The dynamic and physical features of the structure of the solar system indicate that the planets were formed from
gas dust substance that once formed a protoplanetary cloud around the sun. Terrestrial planets formed in
as a result of the accumulation of hard rocky particles, while in the giant planets the formation began with the accumulation
rocky-ice particles, and then at a certain stage of their growth.

Source: http://interesnoe.info/mod.php?n=Articles&a=view&lid=146