KITAZONO MAKES HISTORY AND GYMNASTICS BREAKS NEW GROUND AT BUENOS AIRES 2018

APAN’S TAKERU KITAZONO LIT UP THE ARTISTIC GYMNASTICS COMPETITIONS AT THE YOUTH OLYMPIC GAMES BUENOS AIRES 2018, BECOMING
THE FIRST ATHLETE IN HIS SPORT TO WIN FIVE GOLD MEDALS AT A SINGLE YOG AND ONE OF THE FEW ATHLETES IN OLYMPIC HISTORY TO
ACHIEVE SUCH A HAUL. HIS SPORT ALSO OPENED UP NEW HORIZONS WITH THE SUCCESSFUL STAGING OF AN INNOVATIVE AND EXCITING
MULTIDISCIPLINE TEAM EVENT.

There was a time when it would have been unthinkable for gymnastics – a sport rooted in tradition and decorum – to stray
from Olympic conventions. The organisers of the gymnastics competitions at the Youth Olympic Games Buenos Aires 2018 chose
to break with the past, however, coming up with an innovative format that proved a huge success.

That success is partly down to Terhi Toivanen, Sports Event Manager at the International Gymnastics Federation, who, along
with her colleagues, dedicated a lot of time to putting the programme together. “We decided not to go with the traditional
Olympic concept,” she explained. “We wanted to be different, and you can only do that at the Youth Olympic Games. So we
chose to introduce the multidiscipline team event and revamp the competition schedule. I think it was all worthwhile.
Obviously it was all a bit nerve-wracking before the start, but things worked out well in the end.”

The all-new multidiscipline event saw artistic, rhythmic and acrobatic gymnasts from different nations form 12 teams,
each comprising 13 athletes, both male and female. The teams were named after some of the sport’s legendary figures,
among them Nadia Comaneci (ROU), Max Whitlock (GBR) Simone Biles (USA), and Rosie McLennan (CAN).

“The youngsters all seemed to have a great time and they made friends with other gymnasts whom they’d never competed
with before,” added Toivanen. “After the competition they were walking around town with their teams’ T-shirts on, which
was pretty cool. I think this format is the future of the YOG. Obviously there are some things that need to be improved
and maybe the competition schedule, with four days devoted to qualifications, wasn’t the best idea for every discipline.”

While the acrobatic gymnasts completed qualifying in a single day, their artistic counterparts were in action across all
four days of the competition. “It was a bit difficult for the gymnasts, but even more so for the people in charge of the
apparatus, who had to change the layout a little every day,” said Toivanen.

The event was won by team Simone Biles, consisting of Mariela Kostadinova and Panayot Dimitrov (BUL) in acrobatic
gymnastics; Ruan Lange (RSA), Krisztian Balazs (HUN) and Nazar Chepurnyi (UKR) in men’s artistic gymnastics; Tamara Anika
Ong (SGP), Nhu Phuong Pham (VIE) and Alba Petisco (ESP) in women’s artistic gymnastics; Talisa Torretti (ITA),
Daria Trubnikova (RUS) and Yelyzaveta Luzan (AZE) in rhythmic gymnastics; Liam Christie (AUS) in men’s trampoline and
Fan Xinyi (CHN) in women’s trampoline. Team Max Whitlock, featuring the prolific Takeru Kitazono, took the silver.

The exciting multidiscipline event, which featured no national anthems or flags but lots of young talent, also served
as a qualifying competition for each of the disciplines, with several of the athletes going on to win yet more medals in
their chosen events, with Kitazono taking more than most.

A FIVE-STAR PERFORMANCE
In winning the all-around, floor, rings, parallel bars and horizontal bar competitions, the 15-year-old star became the
first artistic gymnast to win five gold medals at a single Youth Olympic Games, the first Japanese athlete to win five
individual golds at any Olympic Games, and the first athlete in his sport to achieve the feat since Vitaly Scherbo won
six golds for the Unified Team (the former Soviet Union) at Barcelona 1992.

Dubbed “Kohei Number Two” after his fabled compatriot Kohei Uchimura – a three-time Olympic gold medallist and six-time
world all-around champion – Kitazono exceeded expectations at the Parque Polideportivo Roca, showcasing his unique talent
again and again and making light of the pressure on his shoulders.

Neither he nor his coach are going to rest on their laurels, however, with attention already turning to the upcoming
Olympic Summer Games, to be held in his home country: “I’m looking to go out and perform the same at Tokyo 2020 and I’m
going to train even harder to make that happen.”

In the women’s artistic gymnastics competitions, Italy’s Giorgia Villa became the first athlete from her country to win
individual all-around gold. Villa also won vault and floor golds and silver in the uneven bars to become the most decorated
female gymnast at Buenos Aires 2018.

In the trampoline events, China’s Fu Fantao and Fan Xinyi claimed respective golds in the men’s and women’s competitions.
Fan, who also formed part of the gold medal-winning Team Simone Biles in the multidiscipline event, maintained her
country’s perfect record in the women’s competition, with Yu Dong having won gold at Singapore 2010 and Zhu Xueying
doing likewise at Nanjing 2014.

Acrobatic gymnastics made its YOG debut in Buenos Aires. The competition took the form of a mixed pair event and was
won by Bulgaria’s Mariela Kostadinova and Panayot Dimitrov, who were also gold medallists with Team Simone Biles in
the multidiscipline event. Israel’s Noa Kazado Yakar and Yonatan Fridman took the silver and Daryna Plokhotniuk and
Oleksandr Madei of Ukraine the bronze.

Russia’s Daria Trubnikova, another multidiscipline gold medallist, took the honours in the rhythmic gymnastics individual
all-around competition. Following a hesitant start in the hoop, Trubnikova earned the approval of the judges and the
admiration of the spectators in the ball, clubs and ribbon to win by fully 4.300 points over Ukraine’s Khrystyna Pohranychna.
Italy’s Talisa Torretti, who qualified for the final in second place, completed the podium, winning her country’s first
Olympic rhythmic gymnastics medal.

Source: https://www.olympic.org/news/kitazono-makes-history-and-gymnastics-breaks-new-ground-at-buenos-aires-2018

