Modern Olympic Games

The principles, rules and regulations of the Olympic Games are determined by the Olympic Charter, the foundations of which are approved by the International
Paris, in 1894, at the suggestion of the French educator and public figure Pierre de
Coubertin decided to organize the Games along the lines of the Antique and to create the International Olympic Committee (IOC).
According to the charter, the Olympic Games “... unite athletes of all countries in fair and equal competitions.
In relation to countries and individuals, no discrimination is allowed on racial, religious or political grounds.
motives ... ". In addition to the Olympic sports, the organizing committee has the right to include in its program
demonstration competitions in 1-2 sports not recognized by the IOC.

The Olympics Games, also known as the Summer Olympics, are held in the first year of the 4-year (Olympic) cycle.
The Olympiad is counted since 1896, when the first Olympic Games took place (I Olympiad - 1896-99). Olympiad gets
its number in those cases when the games are not held (for example, VI - in 1916-19, XII-1940-43, XIII - 1944-47). Term
"Olympiad" officially means a four-year cycle, but informally often used instead of the name "Olympic Games"
[2] [3] [4] [5]. In the same years as the Games of the Olympics, since 1924, the Winter Olympics were held (officially
Olympic Winter Games), which have their own numbering. The numbering of the Winter Olympics missed games do not take into account
(the IV games of 1936 were followed by the V games of 1948). Since 1994, the dates for the Winter Olympics have been shifted
for 2 years regarding summer.

The venue of the Olympics is chosen by the IOC, the right to organize them is given to the city, not the country. Duration of the Games
on average 16-18 days. Taking into account the climatic features of different countries, the Summer Games can be held not only in
"Summer months". So the XXVII Summer Olympics 2000 in Sydney (Australia), due to the location of Australia in the South
The hemispheres, where summer begins in December, were held in September, that is, in the fall. Also XXXI Summer Olympics
2016 in Rio de Janeiro held in Brazil. These were the first Olympic Games in South America.

The symbol of the Olympic Games - the Olympic rings, five bonded rings, symbolizing the union of the five inhabited parts
light in the Olympic movement. The color of the rings in the top row is blue, black and red. In the bottom row - yellow and green.
Contrary to the common version, each of the rings does not belong to any particular continent [6]. Olympic movement
has its own emblem and flag, approved by the IOC at the suggestion of Coubertin in 1913. The emblem is the Olympic rings. Motto -
Citius, Altius, Fortius (lat. "Faster, higher, stronger"). Flag - white flag with olympic rings, climbs on
All Games, starting with the VII Olympic Games of 1920 in Antwerp (Belgium), where also the Olympic
the oath. The parade of national teams under the flags at the opening of the Games is held starting from the IV Olympic Games of 1908 in London
(Great Britain). The Olympic torch relay is held from the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin (Germany). Olympic Mascots
first appeared at the summer and winter Games of 1968 unofficially, and are approved from the 1972 Olympics.

Among the traditional rituals of the Games (in the order of their conduct):

grand and colorful opening and closing ceremonies of the Games. From year to year, these scenes are attracted to the development of scenarios.
the best of the best from around the world: scriptwriters, organizers of mass shows, special effects specialists and so on. Many
famous singers, actors and other very eminent persons aspire to take part in this spectacle. Broadcast these events
every time they hit records of spectator interest. Each host country of the Olympiad seeks to excel in scope and beauty.
these ceremonies are all previous. The scenarios of ceremonies are kept in the strictest secrecy until they begin. Ceremonies are held on
central stadiums with a large capacity, in the same place where athletics competitions are held (exception: Summer
The Olympic Games 2016, where the central stadium, hosted football finals, without athletics).
opening and closing begin with a theatrical performance, which should present the view of the country and the city to the audience,
to acquaint with their history and culture.

solemn passage of athletes and members of delegations to the central stadium. Athletes from each country are a separate group.
Traditionally, the first is the delegation of athletes of Greece - the ancestor country of the Games. Other groups go in the order corresponding to
the alphabetical order of the country names in the language of the host country of the Games (or in the official language of the IOC - French or English;
At the 2008 Beijing Olympics, instead of alphabetical order, the number of strokes in hieroglyphs was used,
denoting a participating country). In front of each group is a representative of the host country carrying a sign with the name
corresponding article

Source: https://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%9E%D0%BB%D0%B8%D0%BC%D0%BF%D0%B8%D0%B9%D1%81%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%B5_%D0%B8%D0%B3%D1%80%D1%8B